# 1.1-1

In a Formula 1 qualifying session, the starting order for the race is
established by sorting the lap times in ascending order.

Supermarkets are arranged in a way so that customers have to walk along the most
aisles in order to reach the checkout, which increases the exposure of customers
to different products. Having put all the items listed on the grocery list in
the basket, one would like to know the shortest path between the current spot
and the checkout; or to the next checkout with the shortest line.

# 1.1-2

An algorithm should also be efficient in terms of memory used, i.e. an algorithm
that requires less space in memory is considered more efficient than one that
uses more space in memory.

The execution environment of an algorithm, depending on the programming language
used, is also relevant for efficiency (both runtime- and memory-wise).

# 1.1-3

A map (also: dictionary, hash, table, associative array) is a very useful data
structure to describe static or dynamic relationships between things (keys and
values). It is very efficient for lookups and for problems that require
accumulating data by a specific property (e.g. adding/subtracting from/to
accounts by their account number). However, the iteration order of a map is
often not intuitive (i.e. not sorted) due to its implementation as a tree. When
working with only keys or values of a map, the other part sometimes gets
omitted, even though it might be useful in a later stage. Maps also cannot
always be inverted easily (turning keys into values, and vice versa), which
requires additional processing steps.

# 1.1-4

For the shortest-path problem, both destination and starting point are known.
For the traveling-salesperson problem, the initial starting point is also known,
but there are many different intermediate destinations, each posing its own
shortest-path problem.

# 1.1-5

For sorting problems (without any duplicate entries), there is only one correct
solution; all the other "solutions" are wrong and, thus, worthless.

For matchmaking of an online game, the timely arrival of a pairing is more
important than finding the best fit. The players want to play rather now against
a stronger/weaker player then to wait longer to find a perfect match.

# 1.1-6

Sorting problems can only be tackled when the entire input is available.

When compressing an audio or video stream on the fly, i.e. before the entire
transmission is known, an encoding has to be established with relatively little
data available. Therefore, the compression might not be as perfect as one that
"knows" all the values that require compression beforehand.

